---
layout: post
title:  "2: Restructuring vacation groups"
date:   2021-07-31 18:17:05 +0100
categories:
---

Ideas on how to organize groups of people on vacation:

# Dynamically elected leader

Dynamically elect a leader with a poll. The leader is the person that has the most votes on the poll at any given time. The leader gets to choose everything for the group as he pleases. If you don't like the leaders decisions, change your vote to elect a new one.

It is possible to use fancy voting algorithms instead of simple [https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-past-the-post](FPTP) ([https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ranked_voting](ranked choice), [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Approval_voting](approval voting), [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/STAR_voting](star), ...).

Main issue is that the leader may choose something that is financially infeasible for some of the participants in the minority (who can't do anything to stop him).

# Pay for pseudowork

Refund people for doing part of the work of organizing. Simple examples:
- Whomever books the plane tickets pays them x% less
- Whomever has the task of looking for good food places eats for free

The main issue is that this does not really align incentives. There's no easy way of estimating amount of effort expended and the result. Somebody could receive discounts for no effort while having performance that is worse than 'winging it' at the last minute; while other people may put a ton of effort into optimizing trivialities for little benefit. Hence, choosing the amount of discount for every activity is very hard.

# Elect a leader with fixed budget

Even before the vacation has started, set a budget for the whole thing with a trusted leader. From that moment onwards, the leader chooses everything about the vacation. You don't have to pay anything more for food, accomodation and attractions (you should still pay for your own shopping).

Requires a ton of trust on the elected leader. After having paid the money, no mechanism ensures that you get get a satisfactory product.

# Simple voting

Just vote on every decision. The majority rules. No public discussion before the vote. Embrace populism.

# Split on decisions

Whenever there's a decision to be taken, the group splits. Most of the time, the minorities would rather remain with the bigger group doing the least preferred activity than be in the smaller one doing the preferred activity. This is like voting but it can express strong preference as the willingness to split.

# Blind auction decisions

Whenever the group has to decide between a few alternatives, everyone bids how much they would be willing to pay for their preferred activity to be the chosen one. The activity that has the highest money amount is chosen. Money is sent from the auction winner to losers.

It could be normalized so that higher earning people in the group have to bet proportionally more.

Auctions should be secret: all bids are revealed at the same time. The auction is repeated in the case of a tie.

# Quadratic voting with a fixed pre-set amount of points

Same as the blind auction idea, but using [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quadratic_voting](quadratic voting). Auctions can involve money or use some arbitrary tokens that everyone earns at the start of the day.

# Use dares as a 10 year old would

Whenever there's a choice to be made, the group  sets a dare. If somebody performs the dared action, then he gets to choose between the alternatives.

If nobody is willing to perform the dare, an easier dare is proposed until somebody actually completes it.

Makes for great childish fun.

# Combine previous Ideas

Elect leaders that only have the power of starting new auctions. Auction tokens are earned by doing some pseudowork or performing dares. Use quadratic voting to choose dares. Split the group depending on auctions. The sky is the limit

# Talk as adults and try and take into account all your preferences

Hhahahahahahahah who am I kidding this does not work for groups of more than 5 people (it's [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NP-completeness](NP-hard!)).
